[PRINCIPAL] Back on that day
during summer vacation,
you knew the school
would start drifting.
I must ask why you still came.
[HOSHI] Sure, I mean,
I did know what was going on.
And that's exactly why I came.
I couldn't just let it
happen to everyone else.
[PRINCIPAL] But what was
the point of you being there?
Well, I...
The other students didn't ask
for you to save them, did they?
[NAGARA]
Is this a movie theater world?
[RAJDHANI] It's not your
ordinary, everyday cinema,
that's for sure.
You see that?
It's your point of view.
[NAGARA]
Mm...
[RAJDHANI] Hmm...
Skimming through the reel,
it seems like the whole film
is shot from your perspective.
[NAGARA]
What?!
But... I didn't film it!
[laughs]
I didn't think you did!
[NAGARA sighs]
Then who could it have been?
Yeah. I'm not exactly sure
what's going on here.
But this may be
the first "This World"
capable of manifesting
another one.
I feel like this is some
sort of special place.
[AKI] You still haven't
found Nagara yet?!
It's been two months already!
What the hell
have you been doing?!
Sir, yes, sir!
He seems to be wandering
from world to world,
and none of the
super‐power holdovers,
have been able
to detect him, sir!
[AKI] There's no way
that simple boy thought of
that strategy on his own,
which means he must have
others working for him!
They're just as guilty as he is!
Find them, at any cost!
[STUDENTS]
Sir, yes, sir!
[rustling]
[MIZUHO]
Hmm?
[crunching]
Uh...
‐‐[RAJDHANI] Hmm...
‐‐[stomach growls]
What's taking her so long?
I'm starving here.
[RAJDHANI] Relax‐‐she'll
be back before too long.
I've got some chocolate
if you want.
Thanks.
[NAGARA]
Hmm? Ah!
Whoa! A dog?!
[DOG]
Hmm... You smell nice.
I love the sweet
scent of chocolate.
Wait, did you hear
that just now?!
This dog can talk!
‐‐[MIZUHO] Shake hands!
‐‐[DOG] Mm...
‐‐Sit!
‐‐[DOG whines]
‐‐Sit up!
I'd like you to meet my friend.
This is Yamabiko.
[BOTH gasp]
[MIZUHO] Sounds like he had
a similar experience to ours,
and drifted into this world.
[MIZUHO chuckles]
[MIZUHO] And apparently,
he used to be human,
but just kinda ended up
like this somehow.
[MIZUHO]
Who's a good boy?
Nice to meet you.
So he's a veteran
castaway... dog?
[NAGARA]
Mm...
[sniffs]
Yuck.
[RAJDHANI] Okay, so if you're
a castaway, like we are,
does that mean you're in some
sort of stasis, as well?
‐‐[YAMABIKO] Yep.
‐‐I'm afraid I don't understand
why you're a dog.
Is it like a power?
[YAMABIKO] Hmph. I may be
a dog now, but my true nature
hasn't really changed.
I'm who I've always been.
So where do you live?
Somewhere nearby?
[YAMABIKO] I was living
in the forest, but I left
after that big
storm blew through.
[MIZUHO]
He mean Asakaze?
Ah... Most likely.
[NAGARA] Do you happen to
know... why we've been drifting?
[YAMABIKO]
Afraid not.
[MIZUHO]
Can we ever go home again?
[YAMABIKO] I will say there've
been lots of people before me
who tried to go back, but
no one was able to pull it off.
[gasps]
[YAMABIKO] Though that doesn't
mean it's impossible.
What?!
We can go home?
[YAMABIKO]
Yeah.
There's time.
[gasps]
[YAMABIKO] You folks have
been here for less than a year,
if I'm not mistaken.
[CAP sighs]
We're so close to being done!
[HOSHI] Mm‐hmm. We just have
to collect the material
that will serve as it its core.
[MACHI] You're sure...
that we don't need to go
and look for it?
We don't.
Supposedly, it'll come to us.
‐‐[door clicks]
‐‐[GROUP gasps]
[NOZOMI]
Hey.
How's it goin'?
[HOSHI] It's been quite
a while, hasn't it?
What have you been up to?
[NOZOMI] We've been hopping
around to different worlds
with Nagara, looking for
the piece we need
to get us back home.
So... why don't we
go home together?
[HOSHI]
Hmph. You know why.
We've already given
you our answer.
The outcome has
already been decided.
We can't go home.
Which means
we have to stay here.
Now, I really don't wanna
hear any more of that
"there's nothing we
can do" bs, okay?
Young people like us are
supposed to keep on trying,
no matter what, right?
And plus, right now,
we're inside the light.
One step away.
Surprised someone's
drifted longer than us.
He said that there
was still time.
That we're all still connected.
[RAJDHANI]
Yeah, he sure did.
Maybe whatever holds
the connection in place...
Maybe it could be somewhere
here in this world?
Yeah. Maybe.
Assuming that using your
power is the act that created
this world, and that your
power originated back
in our own world, then it's
possible using your power
at the school might have created
a This World onto itself.
And if that theory proves true,
then perhaps there's film
of our own world
in here, as well.
Since we weren't the only ones
to drift, and that it happened
again at the very same school,
it's worth investigating.
[YAMABIKO] Seems like you
guys got the wrong impression.
I'm also a third‐year
student and went to
Shiraito Middle School
Number 2 just like you.
The same school?!
We're classmates?!
Crazy, what's your name?
Yamada Kunihiko.
[gasping]
You remember anyone
by that name?
[YAMABIKO sighs]
Not surprised you don't know me.
I actually enrolled
there the same year
that you guys graduated.
Wait... so what
you're saying is...
If I'm following you...
...that would mean you're
here from the future.
[YAMABIKO]
Space‐time is flexible.
[gasps] Okay. So how
long have you been here?
[YAMABIKO]
Five thousand years.
[GROUP gasping]
He's been here 5,000 years...
It doesn't seem real to me,
not to mention he's a dog now.
[RAJDHANI screams]
Wh‐Wh‐What's happening?!
[NAGARA gasps]
Whoops! Sorry!
‐‐[RAJDHANI] Wha‐‐
‐‐[NAGARA] You okay?
[RAJDHANI]
The heck did you do?!
This reel has footage of us
on it, and it all seems to be
from after we moved
to the island.
Go fetch.
Do it!
I'd like to try something.
[NAGARA]
Hmm.
[RAJDHANI] I made an app
that processes movies.
[YAMABIKO grunts]
[MIZUHO gasps, squeals]
‐‐[whimpering]
‐‐[CATS hissing]
[NAGARA]
Seriously?
Yep, it's true.
Any change to the film has an
actual impact on the real world.
[YAMABIKO grunting]
‐‐[ARMSTRONG squeaking]
‐‐[RAJDHANI] Let's run
another little experiment.
Okay, got some
images from the film.
Now, let's splice something in,
like the Monkey Mountain.
[MIZUHO grunts]
[MONKEYS gasping]
‐‐[gibbering, babbling]
‐‐[MIZUHO gasps]
[RAJDHANI]
Fascinating, huh?!
By editing two
"This Worlds" together,
we can create a composite!
So cool. It's incredible.
Take a look at this.
I had tried this before, but...
It didn't seem to cause
any changes that time.
But now, things are different
since you're watching
‐‐the preview with me.
‐‐[NAGARA] Huh?
[RAJDHANI] Meaning, the world
cannot be changed merely
by making an edit.
The main factor is whether or
not you're here watching it.
Okay, what if we ran
the film backwards?
[gasps]
[AKI] The situation has
gotten way more serious.
[ASAKAZE] You sure we should
leave it up to them?
[AKI] You're talking about
those delicate little mice?
They're as pure as can be,
and haven't gotten any kind
of preferential treatment.
They need me watching over them.
The ones to be wary of,
are those who're too confident
with their new powers,
and now dare to defy God.
Their little scheme could
actually bring about
the end of the world.
[ASAKAZE]
Really? That serious?
[AKI] Oh, yeah. So we're gonna
have to do whatever it takes
to ruin their plan.
You're the only one who can
truly protect the others.
You understand that, yeah?
But there's nothing
for you to worry about.
Your power and my sense
of relativity were a match
made in heaven.
[NOZOMI]
Hey, you ever gonna come back?
I wanna get us
all together again.
Nagara's with you?
[NOZOMI]
Mm‐hmm. He's still goin' at it.
Trying to prove to himself that
he can stand up to the world.
He's really come a long way!
[ASAKAZE sighs]
[RAJDHANI] Hmm... I guess
playing it backwards must go
against the rules of this world.
Was kinda hoping we could go
back before we went adrift,
but of course it
wouldn't be that easy.
[NAGARA]
Huh?
[RAJDHANI] We can see the past,
but we can't change it.
I suppose that means
effects can't happen
before their causes.
[NAGARA]
What's this...?
Oh, don't think we can use it.
It's the wrong size
and covered in mildew.
[BOTH gasp]
[NAGARA]
Hold on...
[RAJDHANI]
Wow, man...
You're really something special.
It's possible for us to go home.
[NOZOMI] So you're starting
on a new project?
[RAJDHANI] Mm‐hmm.
The "Director's Cut" project.
And that is...?
Let me explain, sometimes,
a movie that has already
been released will
be re‐edited,
it changes the way
that the story is told.
So I had the idea
of us doing our own
director's cut.
Of what?
Of ourselves... and this world.
[gasping]
[RAJDHANI] This has us ending up
in this world by mistake,
as castaways.
And this...
has different footage.
Which, luckily, Nagara found.
[RAJDHANI] And this film
shows our own world,
the one we're supposed to be in.
[STUDENTS gasping]
Wow, that takes me back!
You weren't there then.
Oh, you're right.
[RAJDHANI] We're going to cut
ourselves into here where
we're missing, and make
a re‐edit of our own world.
Hopefully, this way,
we can change our story.
That sounds pretty ambitious,
who's gonna do it?
Nagara, right?
[STUDENTS gasping]
[RAJDHANI]
Yep.
It's gonna be
a tough hurdle to clear.
But I know that Nagara
can handle it.
[gasping]
[NOZOMI]
We can't change the past.
That's fine.
'Cause we can do whatever
we want with the future.
[GROUP sighing]
[HOSHI] What if the future's
already been decided?
[gasping]
We already know how
it's gonna turn out.
But what's so great...
about knowing?
[gasping]
Well, knowledge is power.
Though no matter
powerful you are,
you can't change the future.
It's much better for someone
to use their power in a way
that's helpful to everyone.
This shelter that I created
is more like an ark.
It's going to be our savior.
I made something to protect us
from what's coming.
[NAGARA]
Don't just save yourselves.
[HOSHI]
Hmm? Got something to say?
It may all be set in stone...
...but I won't run.
[NOZOMI grunts]
[CAP]
Yeah. Nagara's got a point.
Right? We oughtta‐‐
Now, Cap, have I been wrong
about anything so far?
[CAP]
Guess not.
But... still...
[NOZOMI] If I just took
the safe options and did exactly
as I'm told all the time,
I wouldn't look back
and say, "Good job, me!"
That's not really
much of a life, is it?
Uh‐oh. Nagara, I think
that might be a sign for us
to move to another world.
[KII]
I'm gettin' real sick of this.
No matter how many
power holdovers we get,
we won't beat Asakaze and them.
It sucks, but maybe
we were wrong after all.
[HAYATO gasps]
[TORA meows]
[HOSHI] So, you were really
able to change the world?
[RAJDHANI]
Yeah. It worked pretty well
in our experiments,
for the most part.
Meaning?
[RAJDHANI] Mm... Sometimes,
the editing works,
and sometimes it doesn't.
It seems there's an element
of chance involved.
[MACHI] Are you sure
we're gonna be okay?
Things won't get weirder?
[RAJDHANI]
I wouldn't worry.
The fact remains
that only the things
that can happen will happen.
It's not going
to change who you are.
That so?
[RAJDHANI] I assure you,
you're not suddenly
gonna turn into a dog.
‐‐[sighs]
‐‐For starters,
this world is set up
so that things work out
in the students' favor.
Why is it just us?
Only those from our
school going adrift?
Well, it's because
the principal is God.
[gasps]
Our principal?
That guy's God?
[YAMABIKO] The drifting
happened because he willed it
to happen.
Uh... But how the heck
could the principal be God?
It's just a coincidence,
to be honest with you.
God just happened
to be the principal.
[MACHI] What do you mean,
"he just happened to be"?
And what's the point
of us going adrift
in the first place, anyway?
[YAMABIKO]
There is no point.
None.
[phone jingles]
It's from Ace. He's saying
that he and his group
wanna meet up
with us here.
Ugh, after all that crap
they put Nagara through,
they wanna have a nice chat?!
‐‐[HOSHI] Let them come.
‐‐Ah! But why?!
If they've taken the step
of contacting us,
they must be rethinking
their actions.
Or, if they're in trouble,
then we need to help them out.
[MIZUHO]
I want 'em to beg for it!
This is the entire
purpose of the ark.
[HOSHI]
Okay, this is the spot.
We're gonna build
our ark right here.
[CAP]
An ark?
[HOSHI]
Yeah.
It's all up to me
to save everybody.
Understand?
[PRINCIPAL]
It's what I want.
My wish is to save you all.
[CAP] You don't think we should
help Rajdhani and those guys?
[HOSHI]
Why?
[CAP]
"Why"?!
Because, man,
it's kinda starting to look like
we'll never make it home.
[HOSHI]
And what if we don't?
[CAP]
Uh?
Even if we never make it home,
it's not really a problem
for our old world.
[PRINCIPAL]
It's up to you to save them.
[HOSHI] All I'm trying to do
here is save my fellow students.
[PRINCIPAL] Have the others
sought salvation from you?
[MACHI] Are you sure
this is the best way?
I mean, just doing
exactly as you're told?
It's just... It's not like you.
We leave tomorrow.
We'll be there for graduation.
You think that we could
miss this much school
and still
graduate, though?
No clue.
[HOSHI]
You can't fly anymore.
So... Today's graduation...
I'll be back.
[HOSHI] And now,
our shelter has become an ark.
[YAMABIKO sniffing]
[gasping]
[AKI] When are you gonna get it
through your thick skulls?!
Just give up, already!
[screaming]
[RAJDHANI]
Ms. Aki! Please, listen to me!
This project will
not end the world!
It's just not possible!
It is ending, idiot!
A teacher?
No, there's no way.
[MIZUHO]
How come?
[YAMABIKO] The only things
that go adrift are the school
and its students.
[MACHI gasps]
But...
[CAP gasps]
The only option is for you
all to stay right here!
Go and stop them.
[ASAKAZE grunts]
[MIZUHO whimpering]
[CAP gasps]
[HOSHI sighs]
[gasping]
[STUDENTS gasping]
[AKI growls]
Is Nagara doing this?
The world really has changed.
[RAJDHANI] Mm‐hmm. Looks
to me like it worked.
We should move on
with it. You in?
Yeah, let's go.
Give it a shot.
[NOZOMI] They say they're
ready whenever you are.
We're ready here, too.
Sweet!
Let's all go back home!
[NAGARA]
Hmm.
[TEACHER 01A] Honestly...
What are we going to do
about your mother?
Can't you just make
a decision on your own?
'Cause just talking about it
won't be enough.
Hmm? What is that?
[NAGARA]
Huh?
When did that get there?
[GIRL06B] Teacher?
There's a dead bird
right at the front gate.
[GIRL06A]
It's super gross. Do something!
[TEACHER 01A]
Don't tell me that you...
[NAGARA]
Huh?
You can't... take out your
frustrations like that.
[NAGARA]
Mm? No, it wasn't me.
Uh? Something wrong?
[NOZOMI]
The light...
It's right here...
[NAGARA]
The light?
The one you keep talking about?
[NOZOMI] Uh‐huh. So I was
right the entire time!
[NAGARA gasps]
[PRINCIPAL] Your involvement
is no longer necessary.
[NOZOMI panting]
Asakaze!
[giggles]
[NOZOMI]
Huh...?
[NOZOMI gasps]
Hang on...
[NAGARA gasps]
[STUDENTS singing]
That was... me.
[NOZOMI gulps]
[GIRLS crying]
[gasps]
[singing]
[singing continues]
[PRINCIPAL]
It's a pity, isn't it?
[NAGARA gasps]
You must screen the future to
clearly see what will happen.
[NAGARA]
What do you mean?
[PRINCIPAL]
Contrary to your belief,
you did not create a world.
After all's said and done,
you're just an observer
who's opened a box
of possibilities.
This world exists because
you're here watching it.
The truth is...
...all of you are just copies.
[gasps]
What the hell?
How's there another me here?
Guess this means
we weren't chosen.
And there's no home
to go back to.
[gasping]
[RAJDHANI] I see...
So we weren't going adrift.
It was all just God
rolling the dice.
[applause]
[PRINCIPAL] Did you truly
believe that you were
the only special ones?
[STRANGER]
Looks like they failed, huh?
They got really close, though.
[PRINCIPAL]
Kudos on your graduation.
[ASAKAZE] You're positive
this was for the best?
[AKI]
I am.
The world has been saved.
[NAGARA]
Sorry.
Thought it would work.
[RAJDHANI]
It's not your fault, man.
That what happens
when you roll the dice.
[HOSHI]
He's right.
We were taking a chance that
we'd become the originals.
[HOSHI] I'm sorry for
underestimating you.
[MIZUHO] Hey. I thought you told
us that we still had some time.
[YAMABIKO] Eight months
is inside the margin
of error of a life.
[MIZUHO]
Hmm?
[YAMABIKO] Time has definitely
run out for me, though.
[NAGARA]
We gotta get going.
[NOZOMI]
I was dead.
[NAGARA]
Huh?
I wonder what
the light I saw really is?